---
title: Stop Focusing on What You Don't Have
date: 2013-08-06 15:00 UTC
tags:
---
One of my favorite things to do is to meet other entrepreneurs. I love
seeing other people get excited about building products. The
conversations are usually interesting and make me consider situations
and perspectives I’d never thought of.

However, these folks usually tell me they have a dilemma. They report
that their idea is totally fleshed out but they need a designer. Or
maybe their designs are workable; they just need a developer. Once the
funding comes in, they can hire a marketing person. It’s always the same
story.

> **If only we had X, we could Y.**

Stop thinking like this.

What you’re doing is framing your entire business around what you don’t
have. This is not productive. You are focusing on what you can’t do
instead of executing what you can.

Most people totally overestimate what’s required to test out a market
and see if other people find their product valuable. In almost every
case I come across, you can test out the idea with nothing more than a
little elbow grease and grit. Would a developer help? Probably. Do you
need a developer before you can make any progress on your business? I
doubt it.

Are you starting an online store to sell menswear? Just use a
spreadsheet and a phone. Sell to customers one by one before investing
in a web storefront for products no one wants. You will learn more from
selling the first $1,000 in person than the next $10,000 online.

Do you have a new project management strategy that just begs to be a web
app? If it’s as good as you think, find someone to hire you to execute
the strategy for their project. You will quickly find items you missed
and “important” features that just aren’t necessary.

If you truly think you need a developer, maybe it’s time to go learn
some code yourself. You don’t need to become an expert developer; you
just need to learn how to build pieces of the business you’re aiming
for. Writing “bad” code that furthers the progress and understanding of
your business is a great step to take. Building something to throw away
is more valuable than not having anything built.

The problem is not what you’re missing; it’s that you are not leveraging
what you have. While you may not be a “tech person”, you have many other
skills and resources that you can take advantage of. You may have a
background in sales, marketing, or copywriting that most developers can
only dream of. Why not take the time to exploit what you’re already
capable of? Once you begin to feel the pain personally, it will become
immediately obvious where your business should go.

In short, you already have what it takes. You don’t need anyone else to
get started. Just get it done. Go make your own luck and discover new
situations. Your business will be the better for it.


